---
title: Cardano monetary policy
metaTitle: Cardano monetary policy
---

Cardano aims to achieve true decentralization with the introduction of the
Voltaire era later in 2020. Voltaire will include decentralized voting and
treasury systems to empower the community to influence Cardano's evolution, and
provide a funding mechanism to transform Cardano into a self-funded,
self-sustainable environment.

True decentralization does come with its own set of challenges, as factors such
as security, performance, stability, sustainability, fairness, and crucially,
economic viability come into play.

Maintaining, developing, and improving a blockchain project requires ongoing
monetary support. When Voltaire is implemented, the Treasury will perform this
function, and funding for new features, improvements, etc. will be allocated
through a decentralized voting system.

## Stake pools

The principles of decentralization and fairness drive Cardano's development.
Cardano wants to offer equal opportunities to anyone who wishes to become part
of the network by running a stake pool. But the very freedom to participate
opens up the possibility of unfair advantage posed by larger stake pool
operators. This presents the challenge of maintaining the integrity of the chain
while incentivizing people to create pools and support the chain.

## Incentives mechanism

Cardano's monetary expansion relies on a long-term commitment by stake pool
operators to provide ongoing support for the chain. This commitment requires a
solid and stable incentivization mechanism for the operators, so this mechanism
must ensure that the incentive system does not significantly change in time in a
way that might adversely affect the operators’ income.

Cardano's incentive system for stake pool operators is designed to balance k
fully saturated pools (where k is the number of desired pools), so this
equilibrium means that rewards will be optimal for everybody when all stake is
delegated uniformly to the k most attractive pools.

## Monetary policy

Cardano's monetary policy addresses two issues:

- The necessity to offer rewards for people who participate in the network
- Funding the treasury

**Rewards**

The expansion and future improvement of the Cardano blockchain will be greatly
influenced by its community, who need to be incentivized through rewards to
participate in Cardano’s development.

Staking rewards for delegators and stake pool operators come from two sources:

- Transaction fees - fees from every transaction from all blocks produced during
  every epoch go into a virtual 'pot'. A fixed percentage (ρ) of the remaining
  ada reserves is added to that pot.
- Monetary expansion - a certain percentage (τ) of the pot is sent to the
  treasury, and the rest is used as epoch rewards.

This system is designed to ensure that the portion of rewards taken from the
reserves is high at the beginning, when transaction numbers are still relatively
low. This incentivizes early adopters to move quickly to benefit from high
initial rewards. Over time, and as the number of transactions increases,
additional fees will compensate for smaller reserves.

This mechanism also ensures that available rewards are predictable and do not
vary dramatically. Instead, rewards change gradually. The fixed percentage taken
from remaining reserves every epoch guarantees a smooth exponential decline.

**Funding the Treasury**

The Treasury's goal is the provision of funds to develop Cardano activities
through a voting process. This necessitates a process whereby funds are
regularly sent to the Treasury to ensure that funds are always available.

## Policy rationale for the ρ and τ values

A lot of thought was put into determining what the values for ρ (fixed
percentage) and τ (funds going into the Treasury) should be.

**Calculating ρ**

While searching for the right ρ value, the team faced a quandary: A higher value would mean higher rewards for everybody initially, and the Treasury would fill faster. But higher values of ρ would also mean that the reserves would deplete faster. Paying high rewards and incentivizing early adopters is a crucial consideration, but so is to offer a long term perspective for all stakeholders. Therefore, the solution to this quandary requires a tradeoff between these two issues.

Adopting an exponential decay approach to prevent Cardano’s reserve from running out makes sense in this situation.

Calculating the 'reserve half life' (that is, the time that it takes for half of the reserve to be used up) visualizes the impact of choosing a specific value of ρ over another. This was the subject of much discussion, and eventually, the value assigned was 0.3%. The reason why is that mathematical projections showed that a ρ (the fixed percentage of ada going into the virtual pot every epoch) value of 0.3% would mean a reserve half-life of four to five years. In simple terms, just half of the remaining reserve would be used every four to five years.

**Choosing τ**

Determining the right value for τ (the percentage of unclaimed rewards
automatically going to the reserves every epoch) was equally challenging.
Following discussions, deliberations, and projections, the value chosen was 20%,
which means that, initially, 20% of the monetary expansion and the transaction
fees are sent to the treasury after each epoch.
